W-15082979-dw-expression-builder-advanced-config-duke (#296)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshoot-dataweave.adoc

> = DataWeave Issues and Error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= DataWeave Issues and Errors
```

Reviewer: Not sure if that's correct.

Author: good catch, thx!

:page-deployment-options: cloud-ide, desktop-ide

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

> When Anypoint Code Builder cannot process a value, the IDE provides a visual indicator that there is an issue with the value. Issues include:

Reviewer: the value has an issue?

(I try to avoid "there is" construction)

> When Anypoint Code Builder cannot process a value, the IDE provides a visual indicator that there is an issue with the value. Issues include:

Author: ```suggestion
When Anypoint Code Builder cannot process a value, the IDE provides a visual indicator to identify an issue with the value. Issues include:
```

* <<sample-input, Unable to find sample input>>
* <<resolve-reference, Unable to resolve reference>>
* <<expects-y, Expects _x_ but got _y_>>
* <<invalid-input, Invalid input>>

[[sample-input]]
== Unable to Find Sample Input

> The DataWeave error `Unable to find sample input` applies to a Mule variable, such as `payload`. In this case, the IDE places a wavy blue line under the value in the configuration XML file. 

Author: ```suggestion
The DataWeave error `Unable to find sample input` applies to a Mule event variable, such as `payload`. In this case, the IDE places a wavy blue line under the value in the configuration XML file. 
```

> The DataWeave error `Unable to find sample input` applies to a Mule variable, such as `payload` or `attributes`. In this case, the IDE places a wavy blue line under the value in the configuration XML file. 

Author: ```suggestion
The DataWeave error `Unable to find sample input` applies to a Mule variable, such as `payload`. In this case, the IDE places a wavy blue line under the value in the configuration XML file. 
```

> image::dw-issue-sample-data.png[]

Reviewer: alt text?

Author: ```suggestion
image::dw-issue-sample-data.png["'Unable to find sample input' error"]
```

> If your application is not running, the IDE cannot provide any information about Mule variables unless you provide sample data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application isn't running, the IDE can't provide any information about Mule variables unless you provide sample data. 
```

> Use xref:int-configure-dw-expressions.adoc#quick-fix-data[Quick Fix] to provide sample data in the format and data structure that you expect to be present when the application runs.

Reviewer: user action first?

Author: I want to emphasize QF here

> Use xref:int-configure-dw-expressions.adoc#quick-fix-data[Quick Fix] to provide sample data in the format and data structure that you expect to be present when the application runs.

Author: ```suggestion
Use xref:int-configure-dw-expressions.adoc#sample-data[Quick Fix] to provide sample data in the format and data structure that you expect to be present when the application runs.
```

> For more information about Mule variables, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[].

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about Mule event variables, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[].
```

> For more information about Mule variables, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[Predefined Mule variables].

Reviewer: Do you need the hard-coded link text?

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about Mule variables, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[].
```

[[resolve-reference]]
== Unable to Resolve Reference

The error `Unable to resolve reference` is typically for a sequence of characters like `afkdldjf` that is not recognized.

> image::dw-issue-reference-resolution.png[]

Reviewer: alt text?

> image::dw-issue-reference-resolution.png[]

Author: ``
```suggestion
image::dw-issue-reference-resolution.png["`Unable to resolve reference` error"]
```

> Either provide the intended value or use *Quick Fix* to convert the character sequence into a DataWeave variable. For more information, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables.adoc[].

Author: ```suggestion
Either provide the intended value or use xref:int-configure-dw-expressions.adoc#sample-data[Quick Fix] to convert the character sequence into a DataWeave variable. For more information, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables.adoc[].
```

[[expects-y]]
== Expects _x_ but Got _y_

> The error similar to `Expects _x_ but got _y_` typically indicates that that something is wrong with the provided function. For example, `Expects 1 argument but got 0` occurs for `round()` because the function is missing an argument, in this case, a number to round. An example of a fix is `round(1.65)`. Similar errors indicate that an argument is of the wrong data type or that a function is otherwise malformed and requires correction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error similar to `Expects _x_ but got _y_` typically indicates that something is wrong with the provided function. For example, `Expects 1 argument but got 0` occurs for `round()` because the function is missing an argument, in this case, a number to round. An example of a fix is `round(1.65)`. Similar errors indicate that an argument is of the wrong data type or that a function is otherwise malformed and requires correction, for example:
```

> image::dw-issue-expects-y.png[]

Reviewer: alt text

> image::dw-issue-expects-y.png[]

Author: ```suggestion
image::dw-issue-expects-y.png["'Expects 1 argument but got 0' error"]
```

> The error similar to `Expects _x_ but got _y_` typically indicates that something is wrong with the provided function. For example, `Expects 1 argument but got 0` occurs for `round()` because the function is missing an argument, in this case, a number to round. An example of a fix is `round(1.65)`. Similar errors indicate that an argument is of the wrong data type or that a function is otherwise malformed and requires correction, for example:

Author: ```suggestion
The error similar to `Expects _x_ but got _y_` typically indicates that something is wrong with the provided function. For example, `Expects 1 argument but got 0` occurs for `round()` because the function is missing an argument, in this case, a number to round. An example of a fix is `round(1.65)`. 

Similar errors indicate that an argument is of the wrong data type or that a function is otherwise malformed and requires correction, for example:
```

Read the error message to determine what part of the expression to fix, and review the function description after the error message to learn more about the function. See xref:dataweave::dw-functions.adoc#dw_modules[DataWeave Modules] to find additional DataWeave function documentation.

[[invalid-input]]
== Invalid Input

> The error `Invalid input` typically occurs when special characters, such as `?`, appear in a DataWeave expression and are not escaped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error `Invalid input` typically occurs when special characters, such as `?`, appear in a DataWeave expression and are not escaped, for example:
```

> image::dw-issue-invalid-input.png[]

Reviewer: alt text

> image::dw-issue-invalid-input.png[]

Author: ```suggestion
image::dw-issue-invalid-input.png["'Invalid input' error"]
```

image::dw-issue-sample-data.png["'Unable to find sample input' error"]

If your application isn't running, the IDE can't provide any information about Mule variables unless you provide sample data. 
Use xref:int-configure-dw-expressions.adoc#sample-data[Quick Fix] to provide sample data in the format and data structure that you expect to be present when the application runs.

For more information about Mule event variables, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables-context.adoc[].

[[resolve-reference]]
== Unable to Resolve Reference

The error `Unable to resolve reference` is typically for a sequence of characters like `afkdldjf` that is not recognized.

image::dw-issue-reference-resolution.png["`Unable to resolve reference` error"]

Either provide the intended value or use xref:int-configure-dw-expressions.adoc#sample-data[Quick Fix] to convert the character sequence into a DataWeave variable. For more information, see xref:dataweave::dataweave-variables.adoc[].

[[expects-y]]
== Expects _x_ but Got _y_

> The error similar to `Expects _x_ but got _y_` typically indicates that something is wrong with the provided function. For example, `Expects 1 argument but got 0` occurs for `round()` because the function is missing an argument, in this case, a number to round. An example of a fix is `round(1.65)`. 
> 
> Similar errors indicate that an argument is of the wrong data type or that a function is otherwise malformed and requires correction, for example:
> 
> image::dw-issue-expects-y.png["'Expects 1 argument but got 0' error"]

Author: ```suggestion
The error similar to `Expects _x_ but got _y_` typically indicates that something is wrong with the provided function. For example, `Expects 1 argument but got 0` occurs for `round()` because the function is missing an argument, in this case, a number to round. An example of a fix is `round(1.65)`. Similar errors indicate that an argument is of the wrong data type or that a function is otherwise malformed and requires correction.

//TODO: wrong image, fix or remove
//image::dw-issue-expects-y.png["'Expects 1 argument but got 0' error"]
```
